>> Bianca: We were talking about
using the breadcrumbs method to cache
values that we've seen before
to optimize our unique function.
Memoization is a type of caching, as well,
and so the difference between memoization
and the breadcrumbs method is that
the value that we're getting to cache, so
we rooted array at i and
saved that into our breadcrumbs object,
is not the result of a function.
If you're caching the result of
a function we call that memoization, and
you can think of it as memorization,
remembering things.
The concept of cashing in
memoization are often conflated.
Memoization is a type of cashing.
Cashing really, in the simplest
form in a JavaScript environment,
is saving something into an object or
an array.
Or even a variable,
more like an object and array actually.
That's all caching, so if you refresh
the page, that's gonna be erased,
it's not saved on discs, that's caching.
Same with Node,
if you're gonna cache it you're saving it
into an object that's just on the server.
So if you shut off that server and
restart it,
you're gonna lose that cache unless you're
syncing it to a database somewhere.
So that's what caching is, and
then there's types of caching, right?
We cache HTTP requests and things in the
browser, which is a little bit different
execution environment than
the JavaScript execution environment.
Anyway, we're gonna talk about factorial.
So, factorial is the one were it's like,
like n to the bang,
bang is the exclamation point.
That's how we say it in programming speak,
bang.
So what that looks like, so
5 factorial is 5 with a bang,
which is just 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1.
>> Bianca: Cool.
So with factorial,
we're doing a lot of the same calculations
over and over and over again.
And so instead of re-calculating
the result of this,
it's actually a recursive function.
We could just memoize it,
which means we're going to
save the results of the factorial
function into an object.
Just like in the breadcrumbs version,
except that the value that we're
caching is gonna be
returned from a function.
This is very very similar,
just where the value comes from is what
differs.
>> Bianca: Cool.
And so you can see they're repeated here
so it just keeps getting concatenated.
And so instead of calculating 36 again,
if we just save 35, then we don't have to
go through all of the decision trees of
calculating the recursion of a factorial.
>> Speaker 2: Are you missing some level,
and you have sudo code.
Is there some kind of code
that's supposed to go there,
you're just not writing it?
>> Bianca: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: The assumption is that
there's gonna be code there.
>> Bianca: Yeah, there's some code there,
it takes away from the point
because it's a little confusing.
But the point is is that factorial of
36 is just factorial of 35 times 36.
So instead of every time we calculate, if
we already calculated a factorial of 35,
we don't need to recalculate
it all over again, right?
Because I mean you got to do 35 times
34 times 33 all the way down to 1.
So, do you have a question?
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: When you talk about caching
and memoization?
>> Bianca: Mm hm?
>> Speaker 3: Could that relate
back to space complexity which you
mentioned earlier along the time
complexity.
>> Bianca: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Is this more an example that
it's gonna affect space complexity?
>> Bianca: Absolutely.
So yeah.
With caching you're always making
the trade-off between time complexity and
space complexity.
So it's faster but it takes up more space.
In the browser environment, where
a lot of us JavaScript engineers live,
it's typically the obvious
trade-off is time complexity for
us and other environments where
memory constraints are more relevant.
It's something you want
to think about more, but
in Java Script world,
you can always memoize, always cache.
It's always a good idea, unless you are
getting into big data stuff then that's
something that most of us don't
deal with on the day to day.